---
layout: post
title:  "A life worth emulating"
date:   2016-08-03 18:00:33 +1000
categories: polite hedonism life ethos
background: '/images/banner.png'
---

# Mollie

Of all my relatives, the one I have most admired turned 99 in April this year.  She outlived her four siblings, her first husband who was declared MIA in WWII three weeks before their son was born, their son who died in his 60s from cancer, her second husband and their eldest son who disappeared in the surf at 29.  Her second husband was a man who during WWII was shot down and only survived with the help of French farmers risking their lives hiding him from Nazis for six months until the war ended; they still exchange Christmas cards every year. She also survived bowel cancer with removal of most of her bowels around 1990.

Mollie was already old when I was born, but she's always been so alive. Never worried about what she should be doing but always doing something. Regular bridge games with friends 30 years her junior, because peers in that age bracket are hard to come by. A quiet glass of brandy a regular treat.

She didn't have a gym membership, though kept a healthy lifestyle.  Even in her nineties she was still living alone, regularly walking up and down flights of stairs at her home and the steep hill to the bus stop to go shopping. Taxis were an extravagence she didn't require or desire.

Mollie started learning to speak Italian in her eighties because she wanted to. Last trip to Europe when she was in her mid 80s. Always reading something interesting, the last book we discussed was ex-Chief Justice Kirby's biography, [Paradoxes and Principles].

Mollie looked after my Dad (her nephew) when he was struggling with uni. She took Mum and my girlfriend (now wife and mother to our children!) at the time in to live with her for months when I was in hospital, even though Mum was divorcing her nephew. It was no trouble; "I appreciate the company".
Mollie always had a positive outlook.

Between war pensions, being part of a prosperous generation and her husband's job meant she never had financial concerns, though I don't think that would have changed much about who she was.

Mollie died last week. She'd been in a hospice for about five years now; a lone, intelligent woman amongst those with failing or failed mental faculties. Regular visits from friends, family, and neighbours kept her going for a while, but with her eye-sight and hearing mostly gone she'd finally lived enough.

She's touched many lives and always left an impression. A self assured, strong, friendly woman with time and compassion for all.

Mollie's life is the one I most aspire to emulate.


[Paradoxes and Principles]: http://www.federationpress.com.au/bookstore/book.asp?isbn=9781862876507
